.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/session-feedback-template.md, before:

---
name: Session Feedback Template
about: To give feedback on the session
title: Session Feedback
labels: feedback
assignees: ''

---

Thanks for taking a couple of minutes to give feedback, which will help me improve for next time. 

## Instructions

1. Before doing anything else, hit the green button "Submit new issue" right now to save this issue content
1. Then go through the questions and mark a single checkbox for each, to represent your answer
1. Finally, in the empty comment box below this one, please describe what you liked and what you didn't like

### What was your experience with the SAP Integration Suite before this session?

- [ ] Not much at all
- [ ] Basic knowledge
- [ ] Used it now and then
- [ ] Regular user

### Did this session meet your expectations?

- [ ] Not really
- [ ] Somewhat
- [ ] Mostly

### Was the time allotted to each exercise enough for you to work through them?

- [ ] Not really
- [ ] On the whole, yes

### What did you think of the extra information, explanations and narratives in the exercises?

- [ ] Too much information
- [ ] Didn't really read it, didn't really bother me though
- [ ] Found it helpful as context and background

### How did you find the actual individual tasks in the exercises?

- [ ] Not relevant enough
- [ ] Hard to do
- [ ] About right
- [ ] Helpful / informative

### What is your feeling about the SAP Integration Suite and its different capabilities?

- [ ] Still don't like it
- [ ] I'm going to investigate further
- [ ] I am suddenly a believer
- [ ] I am or will be using the SAP Integration Suite more now

If you have time, please add a comment below to write free-form what you liked and what you disliked about the session. Thanks!

Commit message:

Including SAP API Management in questions

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/session-feedback-template.md, after:

---
name: Session Feedback Template
about: To give feedback on the session
title: Session Feedback
labels: feedback
assignees: ''

---

Thanks for taking a couple of minutes to give feedback, which will help me improve for next time. 

## Instructions

1. Before doing anything else, hit the green button "Submit new issue" right now to save this issue content
1. Then go through the questions and mark a single checkbox for each, to represent your answer
1. Finally, in the empty comment box below this one, please describe what you liked and what you didn't like

### What was your experience with the SAP Integration Suite before this session?

- [ ] Not much at all
- [ ] Basic knowledge
- [ ] Used it now and then
- [ ] Regular user

### What was your experience with SAP API Management before this session?

- [ ] Not much at all
- [ ] Basic knowledge
- [ ] Used it now and then
- [ ] Regular user

### Did this session meet your expectations?

- [ ] Not really
- [ ] Somewhat
- [ ] Mostly

### Was the time allotted to each exercise enough for you to work through them?

- [ ] Not really
- [ ] On the whole, yes

### What did you think of the extra information, explanations and narratives in the exercises?

- [ ] Too much information
- [ ] Didn't really read it, didn't really bother me though
- [ ] Found it helpful as context and background

### How did you find the actual individual tasks in the exercises?

- [ ] Not relevant enough
- [ ] Hard to do
- [ ] About right
- [ ] Helpful/informative

### What is your feeling about the SAP Integration Suite and its different capabilities?

- [ ] Still don't like it
- [ ] I'm going to investigate further
- [ ] I am suddenly a believer
- [ ] I am or will be using the SAP Integration Suite more now

If you have time, please add a comment below to write free-form what you liked and what you disliked about the session. Thanks!
